Project Proposal: Detecting, filtering, and blurring results that include sensitive terms (#873)
WordPress/openverse: rfcs/detecting_sensitive_textual_content/20230309-project_proposal_detecting_sensitive_textual_content.md

# Project Proposal: Detecting sensitive textual content

## Reviewers

- [ ] @stacimc or @aetherunbound
- [ ] @krysal

## Project summary

> Detect results with sensitive textual content by checking their textual content

Reviewer: Would adding the level where detection takes place be useful here? "Detect in the API"?

Author: I tried to avoid implying any specific implementation details in this summary and to just cover the broad strokes of what the feature should entail that would otherwise be duplicated in the Requirements section below.

> Detect results with sensitive textual content by checking their textual content
> against a list of sensitive terms. Once results with sensitive terms in their
> textual content are determined, blur those results on the frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detect results with sensitive textual content by checking their textual content
against a list of sensitive terms. Once results with sensitive terms in their
textual content are determined, blur those results on the frontend.
```

I think it might also be important to note that we _are_ making an inference about image contents based on the textual content matching.

Author: I'll add a note to this respect.

## Goals

This advances Openverse's goal of increasing the safety of the platform.

## Requirements

> **A note on tone**: This section should be mostly readable and understandable
> by casual, non-technical readers. However, certain aspects of it unavoidably
> delve into technical details in order to describe how features fit together or
> considerations that will need to be kept in mind during implementation
> planning. These need to be documented _somewhere_, and displacing them from
> the requirements felt strange. If you are not interested in these particular
> technical details, please skip the two sections titled "Implementation
> details" and the section on "How to blur results". These sections in
> particular consider technical issues of the project that may confound readers
> unfamiliar with software development whether applied to Openverse or more
> generally.

### API

#### Filtering

The Django API is able to filter out results that include sensitive terms in
their textual content. It does so without degrading search performance.

Filtering of results with sensitive terms in their textual content occurs when

> `include_sensitive_results=True`. This parameter will supplant the `mature=True`

Author: Oops, I goofed on the phrasing of sentence. You're right, it should read the opposite, that the _inclusion_ of results with sensitive terms in their textual content occurs when that param is `True`. Thank you!

> `include_sensitive_results=True`. This parameter will supplant the `mature=True`

Reviewer 3: Phew, thanks for correcting that! I was worried that something was flying very far above my head 😅

as a more comprehensively and descriptively named parameter. `mature=True`
should still work, but it should just be an alias for
`include_sensitive_results` and should be marked as deprecated in or altogether

> excluded from the API documentation.

Reviewer 2: 👍 Great idea.

##### Implementation details

This will likely be implemented as a secondary index of results that do not
include the sensitive terms, as explored in
https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-api/pull/1108.

> 

Reviewer: Would determining the list of "sensitive terms" be a part of this project?

Author: Yes! I should add that as another one of the requested documents aside from the implementation plans. I believe @zackkrida is already sort of working on this: https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/issues/377#issuecomment-1458653924

I suspect that was delayed due to Zack being sick, or I just haven't seen it yet today :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer 2: Yep, I'm working on this today still! Expecting to publish in an hour or two.

Reviewer 2: Done, here: https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/pull/911

#### Designation of results with sensitive terms

Results that include sensitive terms in their textual content are so denoted in
the API results in a new result field named `sensitivity`. Sensitivity should be
an array that should be empty for results where `mature = false` and the textual
content does not contain any sensitive terms. For results marked as `mature`,
the array should include a `"mature"` string. For results with sensitive terms
in their textual content, the array should include a `"sensitive_text"` string.
At this time we will not be denoting _what_ sensitive terms are present nor will
we be developing any categories of terms. This approach leaves open the
potential for that in the future, however, by allowing the array to include
specific tokens for particular categories of sensitivity, whether derived from a

> categorisation of the sensitive terms list, or from an image classification API.

Reviewer 2: Does "token" here mean to some reference to a sensitivity category, like the id of a row in a `sensitivity_categories` table, for example? I just want to make sure there isn't anything else happening here I wasn't understanding.

Author: It's intentionally non-specific. It could be a string token literal (`sensitive_terms::violence`) or an obfuscated ID if we felt that was reasonable/necessary. In either case it's a constant that a client (our frontend or others) can use to display additional information about the result or even ignore it completely.

However, those would all be future ideas. My goal here was to avoid recommending us use a new boolean property (or overloading the `mature` property) as that boolean would become quickly obsolete if we expanded the tokenised reasons list and started using it for display information.

Reviewer 2: That makes perfect sense, thanks.

Note that this designation needs to happen both in the search endpoint and in
the single result endpoint. Each endpoint may need a different approach to

> achieve this. In particular, the approach taken will depend on whether
> Elasticsearch is used to determine whether a result needs to be designated as
> having sensitive textual content or if this is done in pure Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
achieve this. In particular, the approach taken will depend on whether
Elasticsearch or Python is used to mark results as sensitive.
```

Just a writing nit, no comments on the subject matter here.

##### Implementation details

There are two broad approaches that can be taken for this. I am actively
consulting with people more familiar with Elasticsearch for the best way to do
this, but the broad strokes of this are that we will either:

> - Loop over results in Python and using a Regex to determine if textual content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Loop over results in Python and use a Regex to determine if textual content
```

  on the result includes sensitive terms. The results of this will be cached in
  Redis to ameliorate performance degradation over time.
- Use a script field and multi-index search to determine in Elasticsearch and as
  a hit property whether the result is included in the filtered index (and is
  therefore "safe").

There may also be other viable ways of performing this determination in
Elasticsearch, but the detail remains. If the determination is made in Python,
then it is easy to share the implementation between the search endpoint and the
single result endpoint (and both can benefit from the Redis caching). If the
determination is made in Elasticsearch and benefits from Elasticsearch's full
text search, then we may need to change the single result endpoint to pull the
result in question from Elasticsearch rather than Postgres, leveraging the

> `_source` property on hits. This could be a big, complex change, though and

Reviewer: I am not sure we have access to the `_source` property on hits. @dhruvkb, could you confirm?

Author: Elasticsearch DSL does indeed include `_source` on the Hit data: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-dsl-py/blob/master/elasticsearch_dsl/response/hit.py#L24-L27

"mature" filter but enhanced with better UI and more comprehensive/less
suggestive language. The API query parameter is not present in the frontend
search route's query parameters. Instead, the setting is set within the
browser's session storage and the filter applied at query time (rather than
being passed through via the query params of the page). **Note that this differs
from the implementation of the "mature" filter that previously existed**. This
is discussed in further depth in the
[settings persistence](#settings-persistence) and
[outstanding questions](#outstanding-questions) sections below.

Sensitive results on the search results page are blurred. Users can unblur and
reblur individual results through a simple and clear interaction on the search
results page. In addition to being able to opt-in to having sensitive results
included in their query, users can disable blurring by default. This parameter
is stored in the application state. If users disable blurring by default, there
is not an option to "reblur" images.

Results unblurred by the user on the search results page are also unblurred if
they visit the single result page for that result. Results that have not been

> unblurred remain blurred upon navigating to the single results page.

Reviewer 2: This specificity is appreciated, very nice.

If a user lands directly on a single result page for a result with sensitive

> textual content, the result is always be blurred by default. This is true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
textual content, the result is always blurred by default. This is true
```

regardless of whether the user has disabled blurring by default on the search
results page, but only applies to page navigation _directly_ to a single results
page rather than a client side navigation.

#### Settings persistence

Right now, the recommendation is to store the "include sensitive results"
setting in session storage and the "do not blur sensitive results" setting in
the ephemeral application state. "Include sensitive settings" should not be
reset by a page reload, but "do not blur sensitive results" should. To
summarise:

| Setting                       | Default | Persistence location            | Behaviour implications                                                                                                                                              |
| ----------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Include sensitive results     | Off     | Session storage                 | Cannot be manipulated through the query params. Does not reset on page reload or in new tabs. Does reset when the browser is restarted or when the session expires. |

Reviewer: Thank you for explaining the reasons behind not wanting to use the query param, it makes total sense.

By "Session storage", do you mean a session that is stored on the server, or `Window.sessionStorage`?

Author: I think you're asking about the technical implementation of a session-stored variable for this (apologies if I am misunderstanding). My understanding is that it will need to be a cookie for the technical implementation to work as the server will need to know on SSR requests whether to send the `include_sensitive_results` parameter.

Here is the MDN documentation about this particular cookie lifetime setting: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies#define_the_lifetime_of_a_cookie

Reviewer: Thank you for clarification! I was thrown off by the name resemblance to `Window.sessionStorage`, which is reset between tabs and is more ephemeral than `localStorage`. I see that you weren't describing that.

Author: I should change it to "Session cookie" to avoid the confusion, thank you!

| Do not blur sensitive results | Off     | Application state (Pinia store) | Cannot be manipulated through the query params. Resets on page reloads and in new tabs and is independent of the browser session.                                   |

Compared to Google and DuckDuckGo image searches' behaviour, ours would be more
or less equivalent (with additional safety from blurring). Neither Google nor
DDG, as far as I can tell, store the safe search setting in the query
parameters. Instead, they store it as a session variable. Neither have an option
to blur sensitive results, so there is no comparison to be made along those

> lines.

Reviewer 2: I appreciate the comparison to other search engines.

URL would send a hashed version of the image that represents the blur. A client
side library decodes the hash and displays it in place of the thumbnail. It
would require two new dependencies, a JavaScript BlurHash decoder to render the
hash and an API library to produce the hash from the thumbnail.

It has the following downsides:

- Significantly more complicated than Gaussian blur
- Requires conditionally calculating the hash on the API side in the thumbnail
  endpoint
  - This would be done by using a new query parameter on the thumbnail endpoint
    to request the blurred hash
- Can have a performance impact on the thumbnail endpoint
- Introduces a delay between when the image is unblurred when it is displayed
  due to needing to download the actual thumbnail
- Could have different performance issues if decoding the hash is a heavy
  operation for low-spec clients
  - Looking at the code, I highly doubt this because it's a
    [fast bit of maths](https://github.com/mad-gooze/fast-blurhash/blob/main/index.js)
    that (due to the nature of BlurHash) ignores almost all the content of the
    image rather than a Gaussian blur which needs to consider ever aspect of the

>     image in order to apply the blur

Reviewer 2: I don't have any comparisons, but it does require each image render to a canvas element, and I don't know the performance implications of having 20 canvas nodes and some (performant, small) decoding JS executing vs. many evocations of a css filter.

I did find an alternative solution that generates images but _also_ then expects you to apply a css blur on top of the generated placeholders. I'm not advocating for this solution but I found its README comparison of different approaches an interesting, but limited, read:

https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/lqip-modern

Author: Interesting, I like that approach. The examples are helpful for understanding what the unblurred images end up being. They're almost entirely unintelligible, especially for complex images.

> I don't know the performance implications of having 20 canvas nodes and some (performant, small) decoding JS executing vs. many evocations of a css filter.

I could measure this. My personal phone is on the far lower end of "mid-spec" and my personal laptop runs a single-core ARM process that only _just_ manages to render web video.

Maybe we could add a request for an implementation plan up front that requests:

1. Test each solution's performance and figure out which one actually performs best on low-spec hardware
2. Make a recommendation for which one to follow

The lqip approach doesn't look like it would be more work than BlurHash. If it has a significant performance advantage for low-spec hardware over BlurHash, that would make it a better candidate, even though it doesn't necessarily have the same long-term usability as BlurHash for other parts of Openverse.

    ETL pipeline we'll develop for dead links, further ameliorating any API
    performance issues
- Does not rely on the client's ability to apply and render a Gaussian blur
  transformation to potentially several images on a single page
- Extremely minor and only barely relevant: If we calculated the BlurHash for
  all images in the future in our re-crawler, we could use them as placeholders
  rather than the skeleton boxes we currently use

#### Recommendation

If we can spare the time, I think BlurHash is the correct choice for the
following reasons:

1. While significantly more complex, it is not sufficiently complex to be
   burdensome. The simplicity of the CSS filter makes BlurHash look monstrous,
   but in the grand scheme of things, it's actually a relatively simple approach
   to blurring the images.
2. It avoids performance issues with relying on low-spec clients to apply
   Gaussian blurs to potentially several images.
3. BlurHash hashes have significant future value and all potential API level
   performance issues can be ameliorated through caching hashes with Redis.

The only significant downside that I think exists is the delay between

> unblurring and displayin7.29.1g the full image due to needing to download the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unblurring and displaying the full image due to needing to download the
```

full unblurred image. However, I think this is balanced out by the bytes saved
over the network in _not_ sending images that might potentially never be
unblurred.

> For reviewers: **What are you feelings on this issue and why?**. One alternative

Reviewer 2: I 100% agree the future benefits of blurhash and love providing the hashes themselves _as a feature_ to our users. It could be _extremely_ useful for API consumers and also dramatically increases the safety of Openverse _integrations_ using the API. So I am fully convinced blurhash does _more_ to contribute to safety in Openverse as a project beyond the frontend.

That said, the blur CSS is _so trivial_ to implement and allows for rapid, iterative adjustment based on user feedback. If we hear that lots of users think it's _too_ blurry or insufficiently blurry, we could adapt it. Because it's literally a one-line thing to implement, I would advocate for **initializing this project with CSS blurring** and creating a new content safety project to implement blurhash in the future. 

This is just one opinion, and I fully admit that it's a painful one for me to make. but I do also fundamentally think separating these things would allow us to ship meaningful safety improvements faster, without limiting our ability to implement blurhash later or having wasted time on a temporary solution (since the CSS is so trivial).

Author: I agree with this. I'll change the proposal to make this the recommendation. That allows us to push off deciding between BlurHash or some other solution like LQIP.

to going straight for BlurHash, if we wanted to get blurring out the door
quickly is to treat BlurHash as a future "nice to have" and use CSS blurring in
the meantime. This would allow us to get a fully working feature slightly more
quickly. I'm not totally convinced it'd be _that_ much faster though. Like I
said above, BlurHash looks complicated, but really only in comparison to how
simple the CSS approach is. Anything would look complicated when compared to

> just adding a CSS filter style to something.

Reviewer: What if we had a single generic blurred image instead of trying to blur the one that needs it? This way, the user would not be able to discern what's behind the blur, but is it really necessary?

Author: > This way, the user would not be able to discern what's behind the blur

I think it's desirable to be able to sort of "guess" at what's behind the blur. For example, if you notice a lot of red, maybe the image includes a large amount of blood or something you'd rather avoid seeing, even though some sensitive results might be of interest for your query.

On the other hand, there are issues with this assumption as well, as in the case of this Mastodon issue: https://github.com/mastodon/mastodon/issues/10729

Our context might be different from Mastodon, though we do include Flickr, which is social media, and may have the same issues the Mastodon users are describing in that issue.

If we used a single generic blurred image, how would we choose it? We decided against using anything associated with Openverse (like the logo) to avoid implicitly associating Openverse with sensitive content. Are there other reasonable options that would potentially mislead people? Maybe a blank box or some other solid colour would be appropriate :thinking:

Author: Oh, I'll also note that the issue is slightly different from Mastodon in that on Mastodon images are often marked with author-composed "content warnings". We won't have those, at least not for the time being (until we implement some hypothetical categorisation of sensitive terms, for example. In our case, the blurred image would be an even more valuable signal for someone deciding whether a result might be relevant to their query.

Reviewer 4: FWIW Pixabay places a black overlay with text "Adult Content" (more or less like a Mastodon content warning) that toggles off when a user selects option to remove safe search filters. No, it does not provide a hint to the image.

Author: That's an interesting alternative, thanks cogdog. We could do something similar with "Sensitive Content" for the text if folks felt it was a better approach.

> ##### Important detail7.29.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Important detail
```

The success of this project rests on the completion of its technical
implementation. However, we can add the following events to the API and frontend

> to better understand the usage of the features.

Reviewer 2: Could the motivation / questions these events might answer be included? For example, I am not sure if `SENSITIVE_RESULT_BLURRED`, for example, is intended to evaluate how much the feature is used or to identify specific media items users _really don't want to see_ for, perhaps, removal from Openverse.

Author: Can do. Coming in the next commit.

### API

- `SENSITIVE_RESULT_COUNT`
  - Sent for each query where the search param `include_sensitive_results` is
    set to `True`. It should include a raw count of the number of results with
    sensitive textual content or with `mature` set to `True`. Not sent for
    results where the search params would not include sensitive results.

### Frontend

- `SENSITIVE_RESULTS_TOGGLED`
  - Sent each time the "include sensitive results" setting is toggled. Include a
    prop noting if the setting was being toggled on or off.
- `SENSITIVE_RESULT_UNBLURRED`
  - Sent each time a result is unblurred. This should include a property
    denoting whether it on the single result or search results page.
- `SENSITIVE_RESULT_REBLURRED`
  - Sent each time a result is reblurred. This should include a property

>     denoting whether it on the single result or search results page.

Reviewer 2: Would we include the media ID with these?

Author: I can't think of how we would use it now but considering it is free to include props on custom events, I don't see why not.

- `NO_BLUR_TOGGLED`
  - Sent each time the "do not blur sensitive results" setting is toggled.
    Include a prop noting if the setting was being toggled on or off.

## Participants and stakeholders

- Lead: @sarayourfriend
- Implementation:
  - @sarayourfriend
  - TBD
- Stakeholders:
  - Team lead: @zackkrida

## Infrastructure

There are no infrastructure changes anticipated for this project.

## Marketing

We can coordinate with marketing to describe the new feature and its motivations
and celebrate the increased safety for users, especially young people, using

> Openverse.

Reviewer 2: I would also emphasize the history Openverse has with educators and students specifically. This change would be huge for them and a great way to reach out to and reestablish ties with those communities. @cogdog ([alan levine](https://www.oeglobal.org/about-us/people-of-oeg/staff/alan-levine/)) is a contributor who comes to mind as someone to help with this outreach. He already does lots of advocating for Openverse.

Author: I added a comment in the next commit.

their textual content. It does so without degrading search performance.

Filtering of results with sensitive terms in their textual content occurs when
`include_sensitive_results=True`. This parameter will supplant the `mature=True`
as a more comprehensively and descriptively named parameter. `mature=True`
should still work, but it should just be an alias for
`include_sensitive_results` and should be marked as deprecated in or altogether
excluded from the API documentation.

##### Implementation details

This will likely be implemented as a secondary index of results that do not
include the sensitive terms, as explored in
https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-api/pull/1108.

#### Designation of results with sensitive terms

Results that include sensitive terms in their textual content are so denoted in
the API results in a new result field named `sensitivity`. Sensitivity should be
an array that should be empty for results where `mature = false` and the textual
content does not contain any sensitive terms. For results marked as `mature`,
the array should include a `"mature"` string. For results with sensitive terms

> in their textual content, the array should include a `"sensitive_text"` string.

Reviewer 5: This is speaking of the Response serializers, which sounds great to me. However, do you know how the manually reported content will fit into this process? For example, will sensitive terms be included as tags? Do we need to add more columns? Will the `api_mature<media>` tables may be deprecated?

Author: I hadn't considered the mature reports and had to look at the code to learn how they worked again, specifically, how the information gets incorporated into search. Forgive me if you already know this, but it was new to me and to understand my answer this is necessary context, so for my sake and for others who might not be familiar I am including it.

When the mature report is created, the [`.save` method updates the document in ES](https://github.com/wordpress/openverse/blob/7c92ba5bdff84b2771dc25a946bb371600906e0e/api/catalog/api/models/media.py#L362) to set `mature=True` and forces a refresh of the index.

There are a couple details here:

1. This will automatically work with the proposed solution, the reports just get folded into the rest of the documents already labelled as "mature". These documents would have the "mature" string in the sensitivity array.
2. I believe this is slightly broken in that this information is not preserved between data refreshes. As far as I can tell, there is no mechanism to re-apply the setting of `mature=true` for results that have confirmed reports during data refresh. Once a new index is created, the mature setting on those documents will go back to `false`. I tried digging for something that would prevent this, but I can't find it. If you take a look at the code and confirm my suspicion, I'll open an issue for us to investigate how to fix this. I suspect we would need to use a similar backport strategy as the others in discussion to get the confirmed reports from API to catalogue. We could also use Elasticsearch ingestion pipelines to flip the mature flag on documents as they're being ingested based on the mature report tables in the API database. Yet another alternative is to iterate through the mature report table after indexing and set the flag on the documents in a batch update. All are probably complex solutions to implement with their own pitfalls that would need to be considered.

So that being said, if the mature content reporting process didn't have that data refresh issue, I think it would work perfectly without modification with this proposal. If we fix that issue, then it will work with the proposal, but there's nothing this proposal needs to do to handle that bug. It is a separate bug and doesn't impede the sensitive terms detection discussed here. We would keep the mature tables around, provided we don't decide a different way of handling them is necessary in the course of fixing the bug described.

> will sensitive terms be included as tags? Do we need to add more columns?

Do you mean tags on the Elasticsearch documents? I don't believe it's necessary and would make search more complicated as we'd have to somehow prevent those sensitive terms from affecting the overall score of the document. Each tag would be adding an instance of the term on the document's overall textual content.

As for adding new columns, I don't believe it's necessary. Right now we're not classifying the particular terms into categories, so the only token that would exist in the sensitivity array is `sensitive_text`.

I guess it is worth clarifying explicitly that documents labelled "mature" are separate entirely (at least conceptually) from those we find have potentially sensitive textual content.

Reviewer 3: Great call about considering the data refresh pieces of this! I looked at the code, and it appears that when building the index we **do already consider** deleted and mature records:

https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/0f90f84d4bf856297356a918e4cc4fe42d07ffc2/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/queries.py#L28-L38

That function is called in the update & reindex steps, and I believe the `mature` value returned there is applied to the index. So if the record exists in `api_mature{media}`, it will have `mature=True` in the resultant index:

https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/0f90f84d4bf856297356a918e4cc4fe42d07ffc2/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/indexer_worker.py#L58-L60

I was unsure about this myself because my initial assumption mirrored your own Sara, I'm glad that @dhruvkb ensured that we handled this appropriately during the refresh 😄

> [have an option to apply two different types of blurs to images](https://developer.wordpress.com/docs/photon/api/#filter).
> This could be used to obviate the issue with blurring client-side on low-spec
> devices. However, we cannot control the degree of blurring and the current
> behaviour does not blur the image sufficiently to obscure its contents. This
> could lead to thinking that we could blur in our own thumbnail endpoint, but
> that would be more resource intensive than using BlurHash (I believe). While
> BlurHash is technically complex to implement, I do think it is the best
> approach for reasons I will describe below. LQIP could also be resource
> intensive for the API, but ameliorated with caching.

#### CSS filter

This is the simplest option and only requires adding a `filter: blur(Xrem)`
style to sensitive results.

This option has the following downsides:

- It is a basic Gaussian blur and may not sufficiently obscure the image if a
  low number is used or may create an unsettling blob effect if a higher number
  is used
- Gaussian blur may not be as aesthetically pleasing as the alternative
- It requires the image to be downloaded to be blurred by the client

> Initial I speculated that client-side Gaussian blurring may have adverse effects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initially I speculated that client-side Gaussian blurring may have adverse effects
```

frontend code rather than lots of frontend and API code to support it.
Additionally, the image would quickly load after being unblurred by the user
because it would just require removing the CSS style rather than getting the
actual image.

#### BlurHash

This is a significantly more complex option that requires both API and frontend
changes to support. Rather than sending the image to the client, the thumbnail
URL would send a hashed version of the image that represents the blur. A client
side library decodes the hash and displays it in place of the thumbnail. It
would require two new dependencies, a JavaScript BlurHash decoder to render the
hash in a canvas and an API library to produce the hash from the thumbnail.

It has the following downsides:

- Significantly more complicated than Gaussian blur
- Requires conditionally calculating the hash on the API side in the thumbnail
  endpoint
  - This would be done by using a new query parameter on the thumbnail endpoint
    to request the blurred hash
- Can have a performance impact on the thumbnail endpoint
- Introduces a delay between when the image is unblurred when it is displayed
  due to needing to download the actual thumbnail

> - Could have different performance issues if decoding the hash is a heavy

Reviewer 3: Much of this section discusses the thumbnail endpoint - do we use thumbnails for the single result page or do we load the whole image? If it's the latter, since we're not serving the images themselves, would we need to switch to using the thumbnail for sensitive results?

Reviewer 3: Per @zackkrida: It appears that we hotlink the upstream image in the single result case. I imagine that would impact how we handle navigating to the single result page for sensitive content and what the blurring process is for that, is that correct?

Author: You're right, there's some nuance that needs to be teased out here.

The frontend does use the thumbnail on the single results page if navigating to the result from the search page. This allows us to display the result (albeit at lower quality) until we have the full image ready to display. It prevents some weird pop-in behaviours from happening. In that case, we're already using the thumbnail and so we could delay downloading the full image until it is unblurred.

In the case where someone lands directly on the single results page (without navigating from the search page), we do not use the thumbnail. We'd need to have the frontend decide to use the frontend instead of the full image initially for sensitive results and then only load the full image once it's been "unblurred".

This is mostly moot with the CSS filter approach though, as in that case we can always just apply the filter client side, regardless of where the image is coming from. We would only need to consider these nuances if we went with an API-side blurring approach, BlurHash, LQIP, etc.

Reviewer 3: Ah, okay that's a great point! I didn't realize that we could punt on these nuances with the CSS blur approach. That's even further argument for it at this time 🙂

   Gaussian blurs to potentially several images.
3. BlurHash hashes have significant future value and all potential API level
   performance issues can be ameliorated through caching hashes with Redis.

The only significant downside that I think exists is the delay between
unblurring and displaying the full image due to needing to download the full
unblurred image. However, I think this is balanced out by the bytes saved over
the network in _not_ sending images that might potentially never be unblurred.

More important, however, is getting the benefits of this broad feature out to
users as soon as we can without compromising on the initial quality. We can do
so using client-side CSS blurring.

For reviewers: **What are you feelings on this issue and why?**. Do you think it
is worth investing time up front in BlurHash, LQIP, or another solution; or is
it fine to push that off to a later date as a potential future improvement to
the feature?

## Measurements and success criteria

The success of this project rests on the completion of its technical
implementation. However, we can add the following events to the API and frontend

> to better understand the usage of the features.

Author: Yes, definitely, I will make this change :+1:
